 
Dear Papa,
A question has been haunting me lately. At first I thought I could keep it to myself but now I have nightmares about it. You told me to open my heart to you in case I had any doubts.
Well, I don’t know what to call it and each time I have wanted to approach you I have had to back out at the last moment, feeling it would be to no avail.
Yet, as the days have gone by the question has began to weigh unbearably upon me, papa. Why did you adopt me? Wouldn’t it have been... wiser if you had had a white boy for a son? Sometimes I ask myself whether I deserve you, then when I think of Mama Malkia I feel terribly grateful that she should be with us.  And yet, there is this weight I’ve mentioned. It’s like a boulder in my chest, a boulder that is hollow inside. Something there is missing, papa, something I cannot pinpoint. Until recently I believed that I should deem myself lucky to go to school with European boys, to live in such a wonderful home.
But the others, papa, they don’t treat me like a European and I shall never be one. Am I not half Congolese? Then why do I feel a total stranger among blacks, with the exception, of course, of Mama Malkia?
It seems ridiculous but last night in my prayers I pleaded God to work a miracle on me, yes papa I wished I were wholly of one race and not a café-au-lait. In body and soul I feel so...inappropriate, so unachieved. These are perhaps the wrong words but you do see what I mean, don’t you?
The other day I thought it would be simpler for all of us if I disappeared. But I am a coward, Papa, I am afraid of what might happen to me and it is true that I don’t ever want to lose you.
It’s funny but as I write this letter I have the impression my pen is being guided by someone else, another me (?) I am meeting for the first time.
Is it the voice of my real mother or that of the father I have never seen? Whom do I resemble? For sure, I’m not bound to hear: “Léo, you’re the spit and image of your American granddad.”
Just don’t laugh! Papa, is granddad the reason why you left the United States?
You did tell me once, a long time ago, that an unloving parent was ten times worse than no parent at all. Does he really...hate you? Even today? Because of how you are? Won’t I also ever get married? Oh papa, forgive me, I don’t know what pushes me to ask you all this. My mind is so hazy. Help me put some order in it.
One thing I have absolutely no doubt about. I shall always remain
your son Léopold

